Add `annotated_ptr` code sample (#14)
wangdi4/oneAPI-samples: DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/experimental/annotated_ptr/README.md

| Software                          | Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler
| What you will learn               | Best practices for creating and managing a oneAPI FPGA project
| Time to complete                  | 15 minutes

> **Note**: Even though the Intel DPC++/C++ OneAPI compiler is enough to compile for emulation, generating reports and generating RTL, there are extra software requirements for the simulation flow and FPGA compiles.
>
> To use the simulator flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition (or Standard Edition when targeting Cyclone® V) and one of the following simulators must be installed and accessible through your PATH:
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition
> - Questa*-Intel® FPGA Starter Edition
> - ModelSim® SE
>
> When using the hardware compile flow, Intel® Quartus® Prime Pro Edition (or Standard Edition when targeting Cyclone® V) must be installed and accessible through your PATH.
>
> :warning: Make sure you add the device files associated with the FPGA that you are targeting to your Intel® Quartus® Prime installation.

## Prerequisites

This sample is part of the FPGA code samples.

> It is categorized as a Tier 3 sample that demonstrates a design pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is categorized as a Tier 3 sample that demonstrates an advanced code optimization.
```

not a design pattern

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")

   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4

   style tier1 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff

>    style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   style tier1 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

if it's tier 3 then highlight the tier 3 bubble

```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), etc.

## Purpose

The [`hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost`] (/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) code sample demonstrates the usage of `annotated_arg` class in customizing Avalon memory-mapped interfaces for an FPGA IP component.

> Sometimes annotations need to be applied on pointers inside the kernel to enable certain compiler optimizations. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the LSUs use in the produced FPGA IP component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes annotations need to be applied on pointers inside the kernel to enable certain compiler optimizations. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the number of Load/Store Units (LSUs) used in the generated FPGA IP component.
```

> ### An FPGA component that contains memory access to unknown buffer location

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### An FPGA component that contains memory access to an ambiguous buffer location
```

> In the example, the device code defines a SYCL kernel functor that computes the dot product between a weight matrix (located in buffer location 1) and a vector (located in buffer location 2), and saves to the result vector located in buffer location 1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example, the device code defines a SYCL kernel functor that computes the dot product between a weight matrix (located in buffer location 1) and a vector (located in buffer location 2), and saves to the result vector (located in buffer location 1).
```

![](assets/interfaces.svg)

The input and output vectors are kernel arguments passed by the host and annotated with `annotated_arg`:
```c++
struct DotProductIP {
  annotated_arg<float *, decltype(properties{buffer_location<kBL2>})> in_vec;
  annotated_arg<float *, decltype(properties{buffer_location<kBL1>})> out_vec;
  ...
};
```

> On the other hand, the address to each row of the weight matrix is transferred into the kernel via a host pipe. The kernel reads the row pointers of the weight matrix and then perform the dot product

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The address to each row of the weight matrix is transferred into the kernel via a host pipe. The kernel reads the row pointers of the weight matrix and then performs the dot product operation.
```
'on the other hand' usually is used when you are comparing relative costs and benefits of two alternatives. In this case, you are describing two parts of the same IP, so 'on the other hand' feels kind of awkward here.

```c++
using Pipe2DotProductIP = ext::intel::experimental::pipe<class MyPipeName1, float *>;
...
float *p = MyPipe::read();

float sum = 0.0f;
#pragma unroll COLS
for (int j = 0; j < COLS; j++)
   sum += p[j] * in_vec[j];
out_vec[i] = sum;
```

The global memory access of the kernel is distributed as follows

> - `p[j]`: buffer location is not inferrable. So the compiler will generate `COLS` Load units connected to buffer location 1 and `COLS` Load units connected to buffer location 2, because of the loop unroll.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `p[j]`: buffer location is ambiguous because `p` is simply a `float *` without any annotations telling the compiler which buffer locations it should be assigned to. So the compiler will generate load units connected to buffer location 1 **and** load units connected to buffer location 2. This is illustrated in the FPGA report, see [Read the Reports] below for more details.
```
the loop unroll is irrelevant to the buffer location being ambiguous.
I don't know how to link to sections within a markdown doc, but please link to Read the Reports :)

> - `in_vec[j]`: located in buffer location 2. The compiler will generate `COLS` Load units because of the loop unroll.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `in_vec[j]`: The compiler knows this accesses buffer location 2 because `in_vec` is an annotated kernel argument.
```

> - `out_vec[j]`: located in buffer location 1. The compiler will generate 1 Store unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `out_vec[j]`: The compiler knows this accesses buffer location 1 because `out_vec` is an annotated kernel argument.
```

### Use `annotated_ptr` to constrain the memory access

> You can provide the buffer location information of `p` to the compiler by using `annotated_ptr`, and then use the annotated_ptr local variable in the dot-product computation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can provide the buffer location information of `p` to the compiler by wrapping it in an `annotated_ptr`, and then use the `annotated_ptr` local variable in the dot-product computation
```

```c++
annotated_ptr<float, decltype(properties{buffer_location<1>})> mat{p};

float sum = 0.0f;
#pragma unroll COLS
for (int j = 0; j < COLS; j++)
   sum += mat[j] * in_vec[j];
out_vec[i] = sum;
```

> Now all the global memory access are specified to a buffer location including `p`, which is located in buffer location 1. This will eliminate the `COLS` Load units connected to buffer location 2, reducing the LSUs consumption by an approximate of 1/3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now all the global memory accesses are assigned to a specific buffer location, including `p`, which is located in buffer location 1. This removes half of the load units connected to buffer location 2, saving significant FPGA resources.
```
I think it's half of the LSUs connected to BL2? can you please check?

Author: yes, it reduced the LSUs to BL2 by half

> 

Reviewer: This is a good place to mention the limitaitons of `annotated_ptr` that we've discussed already.

1. The `buffer_location` that is passed to `annotated_ptr` must be one of the buffer locations already assigned to global memory kernel arguments (so `buffer_location<3>` would not work).
2. You cannot use the `alignment` property with an `annotated_ptr` (mention what the consequence will be).

Author: Limitations added

- `in_vec[j]`: The compiler knows this accesses buffer location 2 because `in_vec` is an annotated kernel argument.
- `out_vec[j]`: The compiler knows this accesses buffer location 1 because `out_vec` is an annotated kernel argument.

### Use `annotated_ptr` to constrain the memory access
You can provide the buffer location information of `p` to the compiler by wrapping it in an `annotated_ptr`, and then use the `annotated_ptr` local variable in the dot-product computation
```c++
annotated_ptr<float, decltype(properties{buffer_location<1>})> mat{p};

float sum = 0.0f;
#pragma unroll COLS
for (int j = 0; j < COLS; j++)
   sum += mat[j] * in_vec[j];
out_vec[i] = sum;
```

Now all the global memory accesses are assigned to a specific buffer location, including `p`, which is located in buffer location 1. This removes half of the load units connected to buffer location 2, saving significant FPGA resources.

> **Note**: The buffer_location that is passed to `annotated_ptr` must be one of the buffer locations already assigned to global memory kernel arguments (in this case, buffer location `kBL1` and `kBL2`).

> > **Note**: Right now the `alignment` property is not supported by the `annotated_ptr` class. Therefore, the consecutive memory accesses via the pointer `mat` in the unrolled loop will not result in the generation of a statically coalesced load unit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> [!WARNING]
> The `annotated_ptr` class does not currently support the `alignment` property. Therefore, the consecutive memory accesses via the pointer `mat` in the unrolled loop cannot be configured to generate a statically coalesced load unit.
```
add a newline so these don't merge together in the same note

# `annotated_ptr` Sample

> This tutorial demonstrates how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses in your kernel code. This can help you build more efficient FPGA IP components with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler.

Reviewer 2: how to use **the** `annotate_ptr` ***what?*** to constrain...

Author: Same as above

## Purpose

The [hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) code sample demonstrates how to use the `annotated_arg` wrapper class to customize an Avalon memory-mapped interface for an FPGA IP component.

A useful design optimization in FPGA SYCL code is to design with multiple buffer locations, (either multiple memory channels in a full SYCL system, or multiple memory-mapped host interfaces in a SYCL HLS IP). If your code contains un-annotated pointers (e.g. `float *`), the compiler will not know at compile time which buffer location to assign to load/store units (LSUs) associated with that pointer. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the number of LSUs used in the generated FPGA IP component.

> ### An FPGA component that contains memory access to an ambiguous buffer location

Reviewer 2: Use headline case "An FPGA **C**omponent **T**hat **C**ontains..."

Author: Fixed

# `annotated_ptr` Sample

> This tutorial demonstrates how to use `annotated_ptr` to annotate properties to pointers inside the kernel, which enables certain compiler optimization that reduces the area usage of the FPGA IP components produced by the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler.

Reviewer: run-on sentence

> This tutorial demonstrates how to use `annotated_ptr` to annotate properties to pointers inside the kernel, which enables certain compiler optimization that reduces the area usage of the FPGA IP components produced by the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tutorial demonstrates how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses in your kernel code. This can help you build more efficient FPGA IP components with the Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler.
```

```mermaid
flowchart LR
   tier1("Tier 1: Get Started")
   tier2("Tier 2: Explore the Fundamentals")
   tier3("Tier 3: Explore the Advanced Techniques")
   tier4("Tier 4: Explore the Reference Designs")

   tier1 --> tier2 --> tier3 --> tier4

   style tier1 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier2 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier3 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
   style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), etc.

## Purpose

> In the `hls_flow_interface/mmhost` sample(/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost), we demonstrated the usage of `annotated_arg` class in customizing Avalon memory-mapped interfaces for the FPGA IP component. Sometimes annotations need to be applied on pointers inside the kernel to enable certain compiler optimizatoins. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to annotate a specific buffer location  to a pointer, which reduces the LSUs use in the produced FPGA IP component.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The `hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost` sample (/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) demonstrates the usage of `annotated_arg` class in customizing Avalon memory-mapped interfaces for the FPGA IP component. 
Sometimes annotations need to be applied on pointers inside the kernel to enable certain compiler optimizations. 
This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to annotate a specific buffer location  to a pointer, which reduces the LSUs use in the produced FPGA IP component.
```

### Using `annotated_ptr` to annotate the buffer location of a pointer

> In the example, the device code defines a SYCL kernel functor that computes the dot product between a weight matrix (located in buffer location 1) and a vector (located in buffer location 2), and saves to the result vector located in buffer location 1.

Reviewer: this is a somewhat complicated design with 2 dedicated buffer locations (possibly 3- see my comment in annotated_ptr.cpp) and a streaming interface. Can you please make a diagram? I shared a link to you of a visio drawing that has some nice primitives that you can use.

Author: diagram added

Both of the input and output vectors are kernel arguments annotated by `annotated_arg` class:
```
struct pipeWithAnnotatedPtr {
  annotated_arg<float *, decltype(properties{buffer_location<1>})> result;
  annotated_arg<float *, decltype(properties{buffer_location<2>})> mul;
  ...
};
```

> The address of the weight matrix, however, is transferred into the kernel via a host pipe. The kernel reads the row pointers of the weight matrix:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The address of the weight matrix is transferred into the kernel via a host pipe. The kernel reads the row pointers of the weight matrix:
```

```
using MyPipe = ext::intel::experimental::pipe<class MyPipeName, float *>;
...
float *p = MyPipe::read();
```

> Since the pointer `p` is read from a pipe, the buffer lcoation of the pointer is ambiguous. The compiler will build two sets of LSUs that connect to buffer locatoin 1 and buffer location 2 separately, which increases the kernel area.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Since the pointer `p` is read from a pipe, the buffer location of the pointer is ambiguous. The compiler will build two sets of LSUs that connect to buffer location 1 and buffer location 2 separately, which increases the kernel area.
```

Reviewer: https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=streetsidesoftware.code-spell-checker

this extension is enormously helpful 😊

> Since the pointer `p` is read from a pipe, the buffer lcoation of the pointer is ambiguous. The compiler will build two sets of LSUs that connect to buffer locatoin 1 and buffer location 2 separately, which increases the kernel area.

Reviewer: "Since the pointer `p` is read from a pipe, the buffer location of the pointer is ambiguous."

I've seen ambiguous pointers in other designs too. How can the user see that a pointer has an ambiguous buffer location? Include a screenshot of the appropriate reports to show this (I think the system viewer is probably where to start)

Author: I've changed the wording from "ambiguous" to "not inferable" to be more straightforward.

You can provide the buffer location information to the compiler by using `annotated_ptr`:
```
annotated_ptr<float, decltype(properties{buffer_location<1>})> data{p};
```

> As a result, the compiler will build only one set of LSUs that connect to buffer locatoin 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
As a result, the compiler will build only one set of LSUs that connect to buffer location 1.
```

The `annotated_ptr` variable `data` is then used in the dot-product computation
```
result[i] = 0.0f;
#pragma unroll COLS
for (int j = 0; j < COLS; j++)

>    result[i] += data[j] * mul[j];

Reviewer: I thought `annotated_ptr` didn't support the `[]` operator? Or is that just when the `annotated_ptr` has a `align` property set? Or perhaps I'm just not remembering that limitation correctly.

Author: `annotated_ptr` doesn't support [] operator only when alignment is specified. For 2024.1 we only document using `annotated_ptr` to specify buffer locations inside a kernel

Reviewer: This memory access is in an unrolled loop, so the optimal behaviour is to specify the `align` property and get coalesced LSUs. That conveniently also doesn't hide this nasty usability restriction.

You don't need to write about the `[]` not being supported in the Readme, but please make a comment in the source to indicate why you're de-referencing the aligned `annotated_ptr` before accessing it.

Author: Please see the comment in the bottom

```

> ## Building the `anntotated_ptr` Tutorial

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Building the `annotated_ptr` Tutorial
```

> - For non-POSIX shells, like csh, use the following command: `bash -c 'source <install-dir>/setvars.sh ; exec csh'`
>
> Windows*:
> - `C:\Program Files(x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat`
> - Windows PowerShell*, use the following command: `cmd.exe "/K" '"C:\Program Files (x86)\Intel\oneAPI\setvars.bat" && powershell'`
>
> For more information on configuring environment variables, see [Use the setvars Script with Linux* or macOS*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-linux-or-macos.html) or [Use the setvars Script with Windows*](https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/develop/documentation/oneapi-programming-guide/top/oneapi-development-environment-setup/use-the-setvars-script-with-windows.html).

Use these commands to run the design, depending on your OS.

### On a Linux* System
This design uses CMake to generate a build script for GNU/make.

1. Change to the sample directory.

2. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake ..
   ```

>    You can create a debuggable binary by setting `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` to `Debug`:
> 
>    ```
>    mkdir build
>    cd build
>    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
>    ```
> 
>    If you want to use the `report`, `fpga_sim`, or `fpga` flows, you should switch the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` back to `Release`:
> 
>    ```
>    cmake .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
>    ```
> 
>    > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
>    >  ```
>    >  cmake .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
>    >  ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
I have a small preference to remove this section since it's covered in a different code sample and otherwise just makes this section very long.

3. Compile the design with the generated `Makefile`. The following build targets are provided, matching the recommended development flow:

>    | Target          | Expected Time  | Output                                                                       | Description
>    |:---             |:---            |:---                                                                          |:---
>    | `make fpga_emu` | Seconds        | x86-64 binary                                                                | Compiles the FPGA device code to the CPU. Use the Intel® FPGA Emulation Platform for OpenCL™ software to verify your SYCL code’s functional correctness.
>    | `make report`   | Minutes        | RTL + FPGA reports                                                           | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates an optimization report that describes the structures generated on the FPGA, identifies performance bottlenecks, and estimates resource utilization. This report will include the interfaces defined in your selected Board Support Package. The generated RTL may be exported to Intel® Quartus Prime software.
>    | `make fpga_sim` | Minutes        | RTL + FPGA reports + x86-64 binary                                           | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates a simulation testbench. Use the Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition simulator to verify your design.
>    | `make fpga`     | Multiple Hours | Quartus Place & Route (Full accelerator) + FPGA reports + x86-64 host binary | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and compiles the generated RTL using Intel® Quartus® Prime.
> 
>    The `fpga_emu`, `fpga_sim` and `fpga` targets produce binaries that you can run. The executables will be called `TARGET_NAME.fpga_emu`, `TARGET_NAME.fpga_sim`, and `TARGET_NAME.fpga`, where `TARGET_NAME` is the value you specify in `CMakeLists.txt`.
> 
>    You can see a listing of the commands that are run:
> 
>    ```bash
>    build $> make report
>    [ 33%] To compile manually:
>    /[ ... ]/linux64/bin/icpx -I../../../../include -fsycl -fintelfpga    -Wall -qactypes -DFPGA_HARDWARE -c ../src/annotated_ptr.cpp -o CMakeFiles/report.dir/src/ annotated_ptr.cpp.o
> 
>    To link manually:
>    /[ ... ]/linux64/bin/icpx -fsycl -fintelfpga -Xshardware  -Xstarget=Agilex7 -fsycl-link=early -o annotated_ptr.report CMakeFiles/report.dir/src/  annotated_ptr.cpp.o
>    
>    [ ... ]
> 
>    [100%] Built target report
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	   | Compilation Type    | Command
	   |:---                 |:---
	   | FPGA Emulator       | `make fpga_emu`
	   | Optimization Report | `make report`
	   | FPGA Simulator      | `make fpga_sim`
```
I have a small preference to trim this down. Refer to fpga_template if you want to emphasize these details.

### On a Windows* System
This design uses CMake to generate a build script for  `nmake`.

1. Change to the sample directory.

2. Configure the build system for the Agilex® 7 device family, which is the default.

   ```
   mkdir build
   cd build
   cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" ..
   ```

>    You can create a debuggable binary by setting `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` to `Debug`:
> 
>    ```
>    mkdir build
>    cd build
>    cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug
>    ```
> 
>    If you want to use the `report`, `fpga_sim`, or `fpga` flows, you should switch the `CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE` back to `Release``:
> 
>    ```
>    cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
>    ```
> 
>    > **Note**: You can change the default target by using the command:
>    >  ```
>    >  cmake -G "NMake Makefiles" .. -DFPGA_DEVICE=<FPGA device family or FPGA part number>
>    >  ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

I prefer to keep this section short to avoid overwhelming the user. link to fpga_template if you really want to show this stuff

3. Compile the design with the generated `Makefile`. The following build targets are provided, matching the recommended development flow:

>    | Target           | Expected Time  | Output                                                                       | Description
>    |:---              |:---            |:---                                                                          |:---
>    | `nmake fpga_emu` | Seconds        | x86-64 binary                                                                | Compiles the FPGA device code to the CPU. Use the Intel® FPGA Emulation Platform for OpenCL™ software to verify your SYCL code’s functional correctness.
>    | `nmake report`   | Minutes        | RTL + FPGA reports                                                           | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates an optimization report that describes the structures generated on the FPGA, identifies performance bottlenecks, and estimates resource utilization. This report will include the interfaces defined in your selected Board Support Package. The generated RTL may be exported to Intel® Quartus Prime software.
>    | `nmake fpga_sim` | Minutes        | RTL + FPGA reports + x86-64 binary                                           | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and generates a simulation testbench. Use the Questa*-Intel® FPGA Edition simulator to verify your design.
>    | `nmake fpga`     | Multiple Hours | Quartus Place & Route (Full accelerator) + FPGA reports + x86-64 host binary | Compiles the FPGA device code to RTL and compiles the generated RTL using Intel® Quartus® Prime.
> 
>    The `fpga_emu`, `fpga_sim`, and `fpga` targets also produce binaries that you can run. The executables will be called `TARGET_NAME.fpga_emu.exe`, `TARGET_NAME.fpga_sim.exe`, and `TARGET_NAME.fpga.exe`, where `TARGET_NAME` is the value you specify in `CMakeLists.txt`.
> 
>    > **Note**: If you encounter any issues with long paths when compiling under Windows*, you may have to create your ‘build’ directory in a shorter path, for example c:\samples\build.  You can then run cmake from that directory, and provide cmake with the full path to your sample directory.
> 
>    You can see a listing of the commands that are run:
> 
>    ```bash
>    build> nmake report
> 
>    [ 33%] To compile manually:
>    C:/Program Files (x86)/Intel/oneAPI/compiler/latest/windows/bin/icx-cl.exe -I../../../../include   -fsycl -fintelfpga -Wall /EHsc -Qactypes -DFPGA_HARDWARE -c ../src/annotated_ptr.cpp -o  CMakeFiles/report.dir/src/annotated_ptr.cpp.obj
> 
>    To link manually:
>    C:/Program Files (x86)/Intel/oneAPI/compiler/latest/windows/bin/icx-cl.exe -fsycl -fintelfpga   -Xshardware -Xstarget=Agilex7 -fsycl-link=early -o annotated_ptr.report.exe   CMakeFiles/report.dir/src/annotated_ptr.cpp.obj
>    
>    [ ... ]
> 
>    [100%] Built target report
>    ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	   | Compilation Type    | Command (Windows)
	   |:---                 |:---
	   | FPGA Emulator       | `nmake fpga_emu`
	   | Optimization Report | `nmake report`
	   | FPGA Simulator      | `nmake fpga_sim`
	   | FPGA Hardware       | `nmake fpga`
```
I prefer to keep the 'build' instructions short to avoid overwhelming the user.

### Read the Reports

Build the `report` target and locate `report.html` in the `annotated_ptr.report.prj/reports/` directory.

> Navigate to *System Viewer* (*Views* > *System Viewer*) and click on *Global memory* in the *System* hierarchy. Observe that the compiler generates a number of `COLS` LD nodes connected to global memory 1, which correspond to `COLS` times of read access over `data[j]` in the inner loop of the computation. You can verify that using the unannotated pointer `p[j]` directly in the inner loop will result in an additional number of `COLS` LD nodes generated and connected to global memory 2, and thereby an increase in the *Area Estimates* tag.

Reviewer: a screenshot would be nice.

	style tier2 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
	style tier3 fill:#f96,stroke:#333,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff
	style tier4 fill:#0071c1,stroke:#0071c1,stroke-width:1px,color:#fff   
```

Find more information about how to navigate this part of the code samples in the [FPGA top-level README.md](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md).
You can also find more information about [troubleshooting build errors](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#troubleshooting), [running the sample on the Intel® DevCloud](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#build-and-run-the-samples-on-intel-devcloud-optional), [using Visual Studio Code with the code samples](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#use-visual-studio-code-vs-code-optional), [links to selected documentation](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/README.md#documentation), etc.

## Purpose

The [hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) code sample demonstrates how to use the `annotated_arg` wrapper class to customize an Avalon memory-mapped interface for an FPGA IP component.

> Sometimes annotations need to be applied on pointers inside the kernel to enable certain compiler optimizations. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the number of Load/Store Units (LSUs) used in the generated FPGA IP component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A useful design optimization in FPGA SYCL code is to design with multiple buffer locations, (either multiple memory channels in a full SYCL system, or multiple memory-mapped host interfaces in a SYCL HLS IP). If your code contains un-annotated pointers, the compiler will not know at compile time which buffer location to assign to load/store units (LSUs) associated with that pointer. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the number of LSUs used in the generated FPGA IP component.
```
I'd like this to be more specific. "**sometimes** annotations need to be applied... **certain** compiler optimizations..." is very vague language that is not actionable for someone. They should understand from this paragraph whether this code sample applies for them, and this sentence doesn't tell them that :)

Author: Update.  Do we need to mention the case in full-system "either multiple memory channels in a full SYCL system", since this code sample is for SYCL HLS?

## Purpose

> The [`hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost`] (/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) code sample demonstrates the usage of `annotated_arg` class in customizing Avalon memory-mapped interfaces for an FPGA IP component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) code sample demonstrates how to use the `annotated_arg` wrapper class to customize an Avalon memory-mapped interface for an FPGA IP component.
```
hyperlink doesn't work when you write it this way

The [hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost](/DirectProgramming/C++SYCL_FPGA/Tutorials/Features/hls_flow_interfaces/mmhost) code sample demonstrates how to use the `annotated_arg` wrapper class to customize an Avalon memory-mapped interface for an FPGA IP component.

> A useful design optimization in FPGA SYCL code is to design with multiple buffer locations, (either multiple memory channels in a full SYCL system, or multiple memory-mapped host interfaces in a SYCL HLS IP). If your code contains un-annotated pointers, the compiler will not know at compile time which buffer location to assign to load/store units (LSUs) associated with that pointer. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the number of LSUs used in the generated FPGA IP component.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A useful design optimization in FPGA SYCL code is to design with multiple buffer locations, (either multiple memory channels in a full SYCL system, or multiple memory-mapped host interfaces in a SYCL HLS IP). If your code contains un-annotated pointers (e.g. float *), the compiler will not know at compile time which buffer location to assign to load/store units (LSUs) associated with that pointer. This tutorial shows how to use `annotated_ptr` to constrain memory accesses to a pointer variable inside the kernel, which reduces the number of LSUs used in the generated FPGA IP component.
```
sorry i should have included this example since 'unannotated pointer' is very much a weird SYCL thing and not something your average C++ user would understand.

```

The global memory access of the kernel is distributed as follows

> - `p[j]`: buffer location is ambiguous because `p` is simply a `float *` without any annotations telling the compiler which buffer locations it should be assigned to. So the compiler will generate load units connected to buffer location 1 **and** load units connected to buffer location 2. This is illustrated in the FPGA report, see [Read the Reports](#read-the-reports) below for more details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `p[j]`: buffer location is ambiguous because `p` is simply a `float *` without any annotations telling the compiler which buffer location it should be assigned to. So the compiler will generate load units connected to buffer location 1 **and** load units connected to buffer location 2. This is illustrated in the FPGA report, see [Read the Reports](#read-the-reports) below for more details.
```

out_vec[i] = sum;
```

Now all the global memory accesses are assigned to a specific buffer location, including `p`, which is located in buffer location 1. This removes half of the load units connected to buffer location 2, saving significant FPGA resources.

> > **Note**: The buffer_location that is passed to `annotated_ptr` must be one of the buffer locations already assigned to global memory kernel arguments (in this case, buffer location `kBL1` and `kBL2`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> [!WARNING]
> The buffer location that is passed to `annotated_ptr` must be one of the buffer locations already assigned to global memory kernel arguments (in this case, buffer location `kBL1` and `kBL2`).
```

I want to draw more attention to these as they are major gotchas. apparently this syntax works in github:

https://github.com/orgs/community/discussions/16925

out_vec[i] = sum;
```

> Now all the global memory accesses are assigned to a specific buffer location, including `p`, which is located in buffer location 1. This removes half of the Load units connected to buffer location 2, saving significant FPGA resources.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now all the global memory accesses are assigned to a specific buffer location, including `p`, which is located in buffer location 1. This removes half of the load units connected to buffer location 2, saving significant FPGA resources.
```

'Load' does not need to be capitalized (unless it's the first word of a sentence 😊)
